packages/block-editor/src/components/line-height-control/README.md, before:

# Line Height Control

The `LineHeightControl` component adds a lineHeight attribute to the core Paragraph and Heading blocks. This allows to update a paragraph line height directly from the block editor interface.

![Line height control in a paragraph block](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/09/line-height-for-paragraph-block.png)

_Note:_ It is worth noting that the line height setting option is an opt-in feature. [Themes need to declare support for it](/docs/how-to-guides/themes/theme-support.md#supporting-custom-line-heights) before it'll be available.

## Table of contents

1. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
2. [Related components](#related-components)

## Development guidelines

### Usage

Renders the markup for the line height setting option in the block inspector.

```jsx
import { LineHeightControl } from '@wordpress/block-editor';
const MyLineHeightControl = () => (
	<LineHeightControl
		value={ lineHeight }
		onChange={ onChange }
		__nextHasNoMarginBottom={ true }
	/>
);
```

### Props

#### `value`

-   **Type:** `String` or `Number` or `Undefined`

The value of the line height.

#### `onChange`

-   **Type:** `Function`

A callback function that handles the application of the line height value.

#### `__nextHasNoMarginBottom`

-   **Type:** `boolean`
-   **Default:** `false`

Start opting into the new margin-free styles that will become the default in a future version. 

## Related components

Block Editor components are components that can be used to compose the UI of your block editor. Thus, they can only be used under a [`BlockEditorProvider`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/block-editor/src/components/provider/README.md) in the components tree.

Commit message:

Add deprecation note to prop readme

packages/block-editor/src/components/line-height-control/README.md, after:

# Line Height Control

The `LineHeightControl` component adds a lineHeight attribute to the core Paragraph and Heading blocks. This allows to update a paragraph line height directly from the block editor interface.

![Line height control in a paragraph block](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/09/line-height-for-paragraph-block.png)

_Note:_ It is worth noting that the line height setting option is an opt-in feature. [Themes need to declare support for it](/docs/how-to-guides/themes/theme-support.md#supporting-custom-line-heights) before it'll be available.

## Table of contents

1. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
2. [Related components](#related-components)

## Development guidelines

### Usage

Renders the markup for the line height setting option in the block inspector.

```jsx
import { LineHeightControl } from '@wordpress/block-editor';
const MyLineHeightControl = () => (
	<LineHeightControl
		value={ lineHeight }
		onChange={ onChange }
		__nextHasNoMarginBottom={ true }
	/>
);
```

### Props

#### `value`

-   **Type:** `String` or `Number` or `Undefined`

The value of the line height.

#### `onChange`

-   **Type:** `Function`

A callback function that handles the application of the line height value.

#### `__nextHasNoMarginBottom`

-   **Type:** `boolean`
-   **Default:** `false`

Start opting into the new margin-free styles that will become the default in a future version, currently scheduled to be WordPress 6.4. (The prop can be safely removed once this happens.)

## Related components

Block Editor components are components that can be used to compose the UI of your block editor. Thus, they can only be used under a [`BlockEditorProvider`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/block-editor/src/components/provider/README.md) in the components tree.
