packages/data/README.md, before:

# Data

WordPress' data module serves as a hub to manage application state for both plugins and WordPress itself, providing tools to manage data within and between distinct modules. It is designed as a modular pattern for organizing and sharing data: simple enough to satisfy the needs of a small plugin, while scalable to serve the requirements of a complex single-page application.

The data module is built upon and shares many of the same core principles of [Redux](https://redux.js.org/), but shouldn't be mistaken as merely _Redux for WordPress_, as it includes a few of its own [distinguishing characteristics](#comparison-with-redux). As you read through this guide, you may find it useful to reference the Redux documentation — particularly [its glossary](https://redux.js.org/glossary) — for more detail on core concepts.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/data --save
```

_This package assumes that your code will run in an **ES2015+** environment. If you're using an environment that has limited or no support for ES2015+ such as lower versions of IE then using [core-js](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) or [@babel/polyfill](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/next/babel-polyfill) will add support for these methods. Learn more about it in [Babel docs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/next/caveats)._

## Registering a Store

Use the `registerStore` function to add your own store to the centralized data registry. This function accepts two arguments: a name to identify the module, and an object with values describing how your state is represented, modified, and accessed. At a minimum, you must provide a reducer function describing the shape of your state and how it changes in response to actions dispatched to the store.

```js
const { data, apiFetch } = wp;
const { registerStore } = data;

const DEFAULT_STATE = {
	prices: {},
	discountPercent: 0,
};

const actions = {
	setPrice( item, price ) {
		return {
			type: 'SET_PRICE',
			item,
			price,
		};
	},

	startSale( discountPercent ) {
		return {
			type: 'START_SALE',
			discountPercent,
		};
	},

	fetchFromAPI( path ) {
		return {
			type: 'FETCH_FROM_API',
			path,
		};
	},
};

registerStore( 'my-shop', {
	reducer( state = DEFAULT_STATE, action ) {
		switch ( action.type ) {
			case 'SET_PRICE':
				return {
					...state,
					prices: {
						...state.prices,
						[ action.item ]: action.price,
					},
				};

			case 'START_SALE':
				return {
					...state,
					discountPercent: action.discountPercent,
				};
		}

		return state;
	},

	actions,

	selectors: {
		getPrice( state, item ) {
			const { prices, discountPercent } = state;
			const price = prices[ item ];

			return price * ( 1 - ( 0.01 * discountPercent ) );
		},
	},

	controls: {
		FETCH_FROM_API( action ) {
			return apiFetch( { path: action.path } );
		},
	},

	resolvers: {
		* getPrice( item ) {
			const path = '/wp/v2/prices/' + item;
			const price = yield actions.fetchFromAPI( path );
			return actions.setPrice( item, price );
		},
	},
} );
```

The return value of `registerStore` is a [Redux-like store object](https://redux.js.org/docs/basics/Store.html) with the following methods:

-   `store.getState()`: Returns the state value of the registered reducer
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`getState`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#getState)
-   `store.subscribe( listener: Function )`: Registers a function called any time the value of state changes.
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`subscribe`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#subscribe(listener))
-   `store.dispatch( action: Object )`: Given an action object, calls the registered reducer and updates the state value.
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`dispatch`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#dispatch(action))

### Options

#### `reducer`

A [**reducer**](https://redux.js.org/docs/basics/Reducers.html) is a function accepting the previous `state` and `action` as arguments and returns an updated `state` value.

#### `actions`

The **`actions`** object should describe all [action creators](https://redux.js.org/glossary#action-creator) available for your store. An action creator is a function that optionally accepts arguments and returns an action object to dispatch to the registered reducer. _Dispatching actions is the primary mechanism for making changes to your state._

#### `selectors`

The **`selectors`** object includes a set of functions for accessing and deriving state values. A selector is a function which accepts state and optional arguments and returns some value from state. _Calling selectors is the primary mechanism for retrieving data from your state_, and serve as a useful abstraction over the raw data which is typically more susceptible to change and less readily usable as a [normalized object](https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/normalizing-state-shape#designing-a-normalized-state).

#### `resolvers`

A **resolver** is a side-effect for a selector. If your selector result may need to be fulfilled from an external source, you can define a resolver such that the first time the selector is called, the fulfillment behavior is effected.

The `resolvers` option should be passed as an object where each key is the name of the selector to act upon, the value a function which receives the same arguments passed to the selector, excluding the state argument. It can then dispatch as necessary to fulfill the requirements of the selector, taking advantage of the fact that most data consumers will subscribe to subsequent state changes (by `subscribe` or `withSelect`).

#### `controls`

_**Note:** Controls are an opt-in feature, enabled via `use` (the [Plugins API](/packages/data/src/plugins/README.md))._

A **control** defines the execution flow behavior associated with a specific action type. This can be particularly useful in implementing asynchronous data flows for your store. By defining your action creator or resolvers as a generator which yields specific controlled action types, the execution will proceed as defined by the control handler.

The `controls` option should be passed as an object where each key is the name of the action type to act upon, the value a function which receives the original action object. It should returns either a promise which is to resolve when evaluation of the action should continue, or a value. The value or resolved promise value is assigned on the return value of the yield assignment. If the control handler returns undefined, the execution is not continued.

Refer to the [documentation of `@wordpress/redux-routine`](/packages/redux-routine/README.md) for more information.

#### `initialState`

An optional preloaded initial state for the store. You may use this to restore some serialized state value or a state generated server-side.

## Generic Stores

The `@wordpress/data` module offers a more advanced and generic interface for the purposes of integrating other data systems and situations where more direct control over a data system is needed. In this case, a data store will need to be implemented outside of `@wordpress/data` and then plugged in via three functions:

-   `getSelectors()`: Returns an object of selector functions, pre-mapped to the store.
-   `getActions()`: Returns an object of action functions, pre-mapped to the store.
-   `subscribe( listener: Function )`: Registers a function called any time the value of state changes.
    -   Behaves as Redux [`subscribe`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#subscribe(listener))
        with the following differences:
        -   Doesn't have to implement an unsubscribe, since the registry never uses it.
            			  \- Only has to support one listener (the registry).

By implementing the above interface for your custom store, you gain the benefits of using the registry and the `withSelect` and `withDispatch` higher order components in your application code. This provides seamless integration with existing and alternative data systems.

Integrating an existing redux store with its own reducers, store enhancers and middleware can be accomplished as follows:

_Example:_

```js
import existingSelectors from './existing-app/selectors';
import existingActions from './existing-app/actions';
import createStore from './existing-app/store';

const reduxStore = createStore();

const mappedSelectors = existingSelectors.map( ( selector ) => {
	return ( ...args ) => selector( reduxStore.getState(), ...args );
} );

const mappedActions = existingActions.map( ( action ) => {
	return actions.map( ( action ) => {
		return ( ...args ) => reduxStore.dispatch( action( ...args ) );
	} );
} );

const genericStore = {
	getSelectors() {
		return mappedSelectors;
	},
	getActions() {
		return mappedActions;
	},
	subscribe: reduxStore.subscribe;
};

registry.registerGenericStore( 'existing-app', genericStore );
```

It is also possible to implement a completely custom store from scratch:

_Example:_

```js
function createCustomStore() {
	let storeChanged = () => {};
	const prices = { hammer: 7.50 };

	const selectors = {
		getPrice( itemName ): {
			return prices[ itemName ];
		},
	};

	const actions = {
		setPrice( itemName, price ): {
			prices[ itemName ] = price;
			storeChanged();
		},
	};

	return {
		getSelectors() {
			return selectors;
		},
		getActions() {
			return actions;
		},
		subscribe( listener ) {
			storeChanged = listener;
		}
	};
}

registry.registerGenericStore( 'custom-data', createCustomStore() );
```

## Comparison with Redux

The data module shares many of the same [core principles](https://redux.js.org/introduction/three-principles) and [API method naming](https://redux.js.org/api-reference) of [Redux](https://redux.js.org/). In fact, it is implemented atop Redux. Where it differs is in establishing a modularization pattern for creating separate but interdependent stores, and in codifying conventions such as selector functions as the primary entry point for data access.

The [higher-order components](#higher-order-components) were created to complement this distinction. The intention with splitting `withSelect` and `withDispatch` — where in React Redux they are combined under `connect` as `mapStateToProps` and `mapDispatchToProps` arguments — is to more accurately reflect that dispatch is not dependent upon a subscription to state changes, and to allow for state-derived values to be used in `withDispatch` (via [higher-order component composition](/packages/compose/README.md)).

Specific implementation differences from Redux and React Redux:

-   In Redux, a `subscribe` listener is called on every dispatch, regardless of whether the value of state has changed.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, a subscriber is only called when state has changed.
-   In React Redux, a `mapStateToProps` function must return an object.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, a `withSelect` mapping function can return `undefined` if it has no props to inject.
-   In React Redux, the `mapDispatchToProps` argument can be defined as an object or a function.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, the `withDispatch` higher-order component creator must be passed a function.

## API

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<a name="combineReducers" href="#combineReducers">#</a> **combineReducers**

The combineReducers helper function turns an object whose values are different
reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to registerReducer.

_Usage_

```js
const { combineReducers, registerStore } = wp.data;

const prices = ( state = {}, action ) => {
	return action.type === 'SET_PRICE' ?
		{
			...state,
			[ action.item ]: action.price,
		} :
		state;
};

const discountPercent = ( state = 0, action ) => {
	return action.type === 'START_SALE' ?
		action.discountPercent :
		state;
};

registerStore( 'my-shop', {
	reducer: combineReducers( {
		prices,
		discountPercent,
	} ),
} );
```

_Parameters_

-   _reducers_ `Object`: An object whose values correspond to different reducing functions that need to be combined into one.

_Returns_

-   `Function`: A reducer that invokes every reducer inside the reducers object, and constructs a state object with the same shape.

<a name="createRegistry" href="#createRegistry">#</a> **createRegistry**

Creates a new store registry, given an optional object of initial store
configurations.

_Parameters_

-   _storeConfigs_ `Object`: Initial store configurations.
-   _parent_ `?Object`: Parent registry.

_Returns_

-   `WPDataRegistry`: Data registry.

<a name="createRegistryControl" href="#createRegistryControl">#</a> **createRegistryControl**

Mark a control as a registry control.

_Parameters_

-   _registryControl_ `function`: Function receiving a registry object and returning a control.

_Returns_

-   `function`: marked registry control.

<a name="createRegistrySelector" href="#createRegistrySelector">#</a> **createRegistrySelector**

Mark a selector as a registry selector.

_Parameters_

-   _registrySelector_ `function`: Function receiving a registry object and returning a state selector.

_Returns_

-   `function`: marked registry selector.

<a name="dispatch" href="#dispatch">#</a> **dispatch**

Given the name of a registered store, returns an object of the store's action creators.
Calling an action creator will cause it to be dispatched, updating the state value accordingly.

_Usage_

```js
const { dispatch } = wp.data;

dispatch( 'my-shop' ).setPrice( 'hammer', 9.75 );
```

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Store name

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Object containing the action creators.

<a name="plugins" href="#plugins">#</a> **plugins**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="registerGenericStore" href="#registerGenericStore">#</a> **registerGenericStore**

Registers a generic store.

_Parameters_

-   _key_ `string`: Store registry key.
-   _config_ `Object`: Configuration (getSelectors, getActions, subscribe).

<a name="registerStore" href="#registerStore">#</a> **registerStore**

Registers a standard `@wordpress/data` store.

_Parameters_

-   _reducerKey_ `string`: Reducer key.
-   _options_ `Object`: Store description (reducer, actions, selectors, resolvers).

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Registered store object.

<a name="RegistryConsumer" href="#RegistryConsumer">#</a> **RegistryConsumer**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="RegistryProvider" href="#RegistryProvider">#</a> **RegistryProvider**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="select" href="#select">#</a> **select**

Given the name of a registered store, returns an object of the store's selectors.
The selector functions are been pre-bound to pass the current state automatically.
As a consumer, you need only pass arguments of the selector, if applicable.

_Usage_

```js
const { select } = wp.data;

select( 'my-shop' ).getPrice( 'hammer' );
```

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Store name

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Object containing the store's selectors.

<a name="subscribe" href="#subscribe">#</a> **subscribe**

Given a listener function, the function will be called any time the state value
of one of the registered stores has changed. This function returns a `unsubscribe`
function used to stop the subscription.

_Usage_

```js
const { subscribe } = wp.data;

const unsubscribe = subscribe( () => {
	// You could use this opportunity to test whether the derived result of a
	// selector has subsequently changed as the result of a state update.
} );

// Later, if necessary...
unsubscribe();
```

_Parameters_

-   _listener_ `Function`: Callback function.

<a name="use" href="#use">#</a> **use**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="withDispatch" href="#withDispatch">#</a> **withDispatch**

Higher-order component used to add dispatch props using registered action creators.

_Usage_

```jsx
function Button( { onClick, children } ) {
	return <button type="button" onClick={ onClick }>{ children }</button>;
}

const { withDispatch } = wp.data;

const SaleButton = withDispatch( ( dispatch, ownProps ) => {
	const { startSale } = dispatch( 'my-shop' );
	const { discountPercent } = ownProps;

	return {
		onClick() {
			startSale( discountPercent );
		},
	};
} )( Button );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <SaleButton discountPercent="20">Start Sale!</SaleButton>
```

In the majority of cases, it will be sufficient to use only two first params passed to `mapDispatchToProps` as illustrated in the previous example. However, there might be some very advanced use cases where using the `registry` object might be used as a tool to optimize the performance of your component. Using `select` function from the registry might be useful when you need to fetch some dynamic data from the store at the time when the event is fired, but at the same time, you never use it to render your component. In such scenario, you can avoid using the `withSelect` higher order component to compute such prop, which might lead to unnecessary re-renders of you component caused by its frequent value change. Keep in mind, that `mapDispatchToProps` must return an object with functions only.

```jsx
function Button( { onClick, children } ) {
	return <button type="button" onClick={ onClick }>{ children }</button>;
}

const { withDispatch } = wp.data;

const SaleButton = withDispatch( ( dispatch, ownProps, { select } ) => {
	// Stock number changes frequently.
	const { getStockNumber } = select( 'my-shop' );
	const { startSale } = dispatch( 'my-shop' );

	return {
		onClick() {
			const dicountPercent = getStockNumber() > 50 ? 10 : 20;
			startSale( discountPercent );
		},
	};
} )( Button );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <SaleButton>Start Sale!</SaleButton>
```

_Note:_ It is important that the `mapDispatchToProps` function always returns an object with the same keys. For example, it should not contain conditions under which a different value would be returned.

_Parameters_

-   _mapDispatchToProps_ `Object`: Object of prop names where value is a dispatch-bound action creator, or a function to be called with with the component's props and returning an action creator.

_Returns_

-   `Component`: Enhanced component with merged dispatcher props.

<a name="withRegistry" href="#withRegistry">#</a> **withRegistry**

Higher-order component which renders the original component with the current
registry context passed as its `registry` prop.

_Parameters_

-   _OriginalComponent_ `WPComponent`: Original component.

_Returns_

-   `WPComponent`: Enhanced component.

<a name="withSelect" href="#withSelect">#</a> **withSelect**

Higher-order component used to inject state-derived props using registered
selectors.

_Usage_

```js
function PriceDisplay( { price, currency } ) {
	return new Intl.NumberFormat( 'en-US', {
		style: 'currency',
		currency,
	} ).format( price );
}

const { withSelect } = wp.data;

const HammerPriceDisplay = withSelect( ( select, ownProps ) => {
	const { getPrice } = select( 'my-shop' );
	const { currency } = ownProps;

	return {
		price: getPrice( 'hammer', currency ),
	};
} )( PriceDisplay );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <HammerPriceDisplay currency="USD" />
```

In the above example, when `HammerPriceDisplay` is rendered into an application, it will pass the price into the underlying `PriceDisplay` component and update automatically if the price of a hammer ever changes in the store.

_Parameters_

-   _mapSelectToProps_ `Function`: Function called on every state change, expected to return object of props to merge with the component's own props.

_Returns_

-   `Component`: Enhanced component with merged state data props.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>

Commit message:

Data: Restore dispatch actions returning actions that are a Promise (#14830)
All dispatched action creators will now return a Promise.

packages/data/README.md, after:

# Data

WordPress' data module serves as a hub to manage application state for both plugins and WordPress itself, providing tools to manage data within and between distinct modules. It is designed as a modular pattern for organizing and sharing data: simple enough to satisfy the needs of a small plugin, while scalable to serve the requirements of a complex single-page application.

The data module is built upon and shares many of the same core principles of [Redux](https://redux.js.org/), but shouldn't be mistaken as merely _Redux for WordPress_, as it includes a few of its own [distinguishing characteristics](#comparison-with-redux). As you read through this guide, you may find it useful to reference the Redux documentation — particularly [its glossary](https://redux.js.org/glossary) — for more detail on core concepts.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/data --save
```

_This package assumes that your code will run in an **ES2015+** environment. If you're using an environment that has limited or no support for ES2015+ such as lower versions of IE then using [core-js](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) or [@babel/polyfill](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/next/babel-polyfill) will add support for these methods. Learn more about it in [Babel docs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/next/caveats)._

## Registering a Store

Use the `registerStore` function to add your own store to the centralized data registry. This function accepts two arguments: a name to identify the module, and an object with values describing how your state is represented, modified, and accessed. At a minimum, you must provide a reducer function describing the shape of your state and how it changes in response to actions dispatched to the store.

```js
const { data, apiFetch } = wp;
const { registerStore } = data;

const DEFAULT_STATE = {
	prices: {},
	discountPercent: 0,
};

const actions = {
	setPrice( item, price ) {
		return {
			type: 'SET_PRICE',
			item,
			price,
		};
	},

	startSale( discountPercent ) {
		return {
			type: 'START_SALE',
			discountPercent,
		};
	},

	fetchFromAPI( path ) {
		return {
			type: 'FETCH_FROM_API',
			path,
		};
	},
};

registerStore( 'my-shop', {
	reducer( state = DEFAULT_STATE, action ) {
		switch ( action.type ) {
			case 'SET_PRICE':
				return {
					...state,
					prices: {
						...state.prices,
						[ action.item ]: action.price,
					},
				};

			case 'START_SALE':
				return {
					...state,
					discountPercent: action.discountPercent,
				};
		}

		return state;
	},

	actions,

	selectors: {
		getPrice( state, item ) {
			const { prices, discountPercent } = state;
			const price = prices[ item ];

			return price * ( 1 - ( 0.01 * discountPercent ) );
		},
	},

	controls: {
		FETCH_FROM_API( action ) {
			return apiFetch( { path: action.path } );
		},
	},

	resolvers: {
		* getPrice( item ) {
			const path = '/wp/v2/prices/' + item;
			const price = yield actions.fetchFromAPI( path );
			return actions.setPrice( item, price );
		},
	},
} );
```

The return value of `registerStore` is a [Redux-like store object](https://redux.js.org/docs/basics/Store.html) with the following methods:

-   `store.getState()`: Returns the state value of the registered reducer
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`getState`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#getState)
-   `store.subscribe( listener: Function )`: Registers a function called any time the value of state changes.
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`subscribe`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#subscribe(listener))
-   `store.dispatch( action: Object )`: Given an action object, calls the registered reducer and updates the state value.
    -   _Redux parallel:_ [`dispatch`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#dispatch(action))

### Options

#### `reducer`

A [**reducer**](https://redux.js.org/docs/basics/Reducers.html) is a function accepting the previous `state` and `action` as arguments and returns an updated `state` value.

#### `actions`

The **`actions`** object should describe all [action creators](https://redux.js.org/glossary#action-creator) available for your store. An action creator is a function that optionally accepts arguments and returns an action object to dispatch to the registered reducer. _Dispatching actions is the primary mechanism for making changes to your state._

#### `selectors`

The **`selectors`** object includes a set of functions for accessing and deriving state values. A selector is a function which accepts state and optional arguments and returns some value from state. _Calling selectors is the primary mechanism for retrieving data from your state_, and serve as a useful abstraction over the raw data which is typically more susceptible to change and less readily usable as a [normalized object](https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/normalizing-state-shape#designing-a-normalized-state).

#### `resolvers`

A **resolver** is a side-effect for a selector. If your selector result may need to be fulfilled from an external source, you can define a resolver such that the first time the selector is called, the fulfillment behavior is effected.

The `resolvers` option should be passed as an object where each key is the name of the selector to act upon, the value a function which receives the same arguments passed to the selector, excluding the state argument. It can then dispatch as necessary to fulfill the requirements of the selector, taking advantage of the fact that most data consumers will subscribe to subsequent state changes (by `subscribe` or `withSelect`).

#### `controls`

_**Note:** Controls are an opt-in feature, enabled via `use` (the [Plugins API](/packages/data/src/plugins/README.md))._

A **control** defines the execution flow behavior associated with a specific action type. This can be particularly useful in implementing asynchronous data flows for your store. By defining your action creator or resolvers as a generator which yields specific controlled action types, the execution will proceed as defined by the control handler.

The `controls` option should be passed as an object where each key is the name of the action type to act upon, the value a function which receives the original action object. It should returns either a promise which is to resolve when evaluation of the action should continue, or a value. The value or resolved promise value is assigned on the return value of the yield assignment. If the control handler returns undefined, the execution is not continued.

Refer to the [documentation of `@wordpress/redux-routine`](/packages/redux-routine/README.md) for more information.

#### `initialState`

An optional preloaded initial state for the store. You may use this to restore some serialized state value or a state generated server-side.

## Generic Stores

The `@wordpress/data` module offers a more advanced and generic interface for the purposes of integrating other data systems and situations where more direct control over a data system is needed. In this case, a data store will need to be implemented outside of `@wordpress/data` and then plugged in via three functions:

-   `getSelectors()`: Returns an object of selector functions, pre-mapped to the store.
-   `getActions()`: Returns an object of action functions, pre-mapped to the store.
-   `subscribe( listener: Function )`: Registers a function called any time the value of state changes.
    -   Behaves as Redux [`subscribe`](https://redux.js.org/api-reference/store#subscribe(listener))
        with the following differences:
        -   Doesn't have to implement an unsubscribe, since the registry never uses it.
            			  \- Only has to support one listener (the registry).

By implementing the above interface for your custom store, you gain the benefits of using the registry and the `withSelect` and `withDispatch` higher order components in your application code. This provides seamless integration with existing and alternative data systems.

Integrating an existing redux store with its own reducers, store enhancers and middleware can be accomplished as follows:

_Example:_

```js
import existingSelectors from './existing-app/selectors';
import existingActions from './existing-app/actions';
import createStore from './existing-app/store';

const reduxStore = createStore();

const mappedSelectors = existingSelectors.map( ( selector ) => {
	return ( ...args ) => selector( reduxStore.getState(), ...args );
} );

const mappedActions = existingActions.map( ( action ) => {
	return actions.map( ( action ) => {
		return ( ...args ) => reduxStore.dispatch( action( ...args ) );
	} );
} );

const genericStore = {
	getSelectors() {
		return mappedSelectors;
	},
	getActions() {
		return mappedActions;
	},
	subscribe: reduxStore.subscribe;
};

registry.registerGenericStore( 'existing-app', genericStore );
```

It is also possible to implement a completely custom store from scratch:

_Example:_

```js
function createCustomStore() {
	let storeChanged = () => {};
	const prices = { hammer: 7.50 };

	const selectors = {
		getPrice( itemName ): {
			return prices[ itemName ];
		},
	};

	const actions = {
		setPrice( itemName, price ): {
			prices[ itemName ] = price;
			storeChanged();
		},
	};

	return {
		getSelectors() {
			return selectors;
		},
		getActions() {
			return actions;
		},
		subscribe( listener ) {
			storeChanged = listener;
		}
	};
}

registry.registerGenericStore( 'custom-data', createCustomStore() );
```

## Comparison with Redux

The data module shares many of the same [core principles](https://redux.js.org/introduction/three-principles) and [API method naming](https://redux.js.org/api-reference) of [Redux](https://redux.js.org/). In fact, it is implemented atop Redux. Where it differs is in establishing a modularization pattern for creating separate but interdependent stores, and in codifying conventions such as selector functions as the primary entry point for data access.

The [higher-order components](#higher-order-components) were created to complement this distinction. The intention with splitting `withSelect` and `withDispatch` — where in React Redux they are combined under `connect` as `mapStateToProps` and `mapDispatchToProps` arguments — is to more accurately reflect that dispatch is not dependent upon a subscription to state changes, and to allow for state-derived values to be used in `withDispatch` (via [higher-order component composition](/packages/compose/README.md)).

Specific implementation differences from Redux and React Redux:

-   In Redux, a `subscribe` listener is called on every dispatch, regardless of whether the value of state has changed.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, a subscriber is only called when state has changed.
-   In React Redux, a `mapStateToProps` function must return an object.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, a `withSelect` mapping function can return `undefined` if it has no props to inject.
-   In React Redux, the `mapDispatchToProps` argument can be defined as an object or a function.
    -   In `@wordpress/data`, the `withDispatch` higher-order component creator must be passed a function.

## API

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<a name="combineReducers" href="#combineReducers">#</a> **combineReducers**

The combineReducers helper function turns an object whose values are different
reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to registerReducer.

_Usage_

```js
const { combineReducers, registerStore } = wp.data;

const prices = ( state = {}, action ) => {
	return action.type === 'SET_PRICE' ?
		{
			...state,
			[ action.item ]: action.price,
		} :
		state;
};

const discountPercent = ( state = 0, action ) => {
	return action.type === 'START_SALE' ?
		action.discountPercent :
		state;
};

registerStore( 'my-shop', {
	reducer: combineReducers( {
		prices,
		discountPercent,
	} ),
} );
```

_Parameters_

-   _reducers_ `Object`: An object whose values correspond to different reducing functions that need to be combined into one.

_Returns_

-   `Function`: A reducer that invokes every reducer inside the reducers object, and constructs a state object with the same shape.

<a name="createRegistry" href="#createRegistry">#</a> **createRegistry**

Creates a new store registry, given an optional object of initial store
configurations.

_Parameters_

-   _storeConfigs_ `Object`: Initial store configurations.
-   _parent_ `?Object`: Parent registry.

_Returns_

-   `WPDataRegistry`: Data registry.

<a name="createRegistryControl" href="#createRegistryControl">#</a> **createRegistryControl**

Mark a control as a registry control.

_Parameters_

-   _registryControl_ `function`: Function receiving a registry object and returning a control.

_Returns_

-   `function`: marked registry control.

<a name="createRegistrySelector" href="#createRegistrySelector">#</a> **createRegistrySelector**

Mark a selector as a registry selector.

_Parameters_

-   _registrySelector_ `function`: Function receiving a registry object and returning a state selector.

_Returns_

-   `function`: marked registry selector.

<a name="dispatch" href="#dispatch">#</a> **dispatch**

Given the name of a registered store, returns an object of the store's action creators.
Calling an action creator will cause it to be dispatched, updating the state value accordingly.

Note: Action creators returned by the dispatch will return a promise when
they are called.

_Usage_

```js
const { dispatch } = wp.data;

dispatch( 'my-shop' ).setPrice( 'hammer', 9.75 );
```

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Store name

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Object containing the action creators.

<a name="plugins" href="#plugins">#</a> **plugins**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="registerGenericStore" href="#registerGenericStore">#</a> **registerGenericStore**

Registers a generic store.

_Parameters_

-   _key_ `string`: Store registry key.
-   _config_ `Object`: Configuration (getSelectors, getActions, subscribe).

<a name="registerStore" href="#registerStore">#</a> **registerStore**

Registers a standard `@wordpress/data` store.

_Parameters_

-   _reducerKey_ `string`: Reducer key.
-   _options_ `Object`: Store description (reducer, actions, selectors, resolvers).

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Registered store object.

<a name="RegistryConsumer" href="#RegistryConsumer">#</a> **RegistryConsumer**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="RegistryProvider" href="#RegistryProvider">#</a> **RegistryProvider**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="select" href="#select">#</a> **select**

Given the name of a registered store, returns an object of the store's selectors.
The selector functions are been pre-bound to pass the current state automatically.
As a consumer, you need only pass arguments of the selector, if applicable.

_Usage_

```js
const { select } = wp.data;

select( 'my-shop' ).getPrice( 'hammer' );
```

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Store name

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Object containing the store's selectors.

<a name="subscribe" href="#subscribe">#</a> **subscribe**

Given a listener function, the function will be called any time the state value
of one of the registered stores has changed. This function returns a `unsubscribe`
function used to stop the subscription.

_Usage_

```js
const { subscribe } = wp.data;

const unsubscribe = subscribe( () => {
	// You could use this opportunity to test whether the derived result of a
	// selector has subsequently changed as the result of a state update.
} );

// Later, if necessary...
unsubscribe();
```

_Parameters_

-   _listener_ `Function`: Callback function.

<a name="use" href="#use">#</a> **use**

Undocumented declaration.

<a name="withDispatch" href="#withDispatch">#</a> **withDispatch**

Higher-order component used to add dispatch props using registered action creators.

_Usage_

```jsx
function Button( { onClick, children } ) {
	return <button type="button" onClick={ onClick }>{ children }</button>;
}

const { withDispatch } = wp.data;

const SaleButton = withDispatch( ( dispatch, ownProps ) => {
	const { startSale } = dispatch( 'my-shop' );
	const { discountPercent } = ownProps;

	return {
		onClick() {
			startSale( discountPercent );
		},
	};
} )( Button );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <SaleButton discountPercent="20">Start Sale!</SaleButton>
```

In the majority of cases, it will be sufficient to use only two first params passed to `mapDispatchToProps` as illustrated in the previous example. However, there might be some very advanced use cases where using the `registry` object might be used as a tool to optimize the performance of your component. Using `select` function from the registry might be useful when you need to fetch some dynamic data from the store at the time when the event is fired, but at the same time, you never use it to render your component. In such scenario, you can avoid using the `withSelect` higher order component to compute such prop, which might lead to unnecessary re-renders of you component caused by its frequent value change. Keep in mind, that `mapDispatchToProps` must return an object with functions only.

```jsx
function Button( { onClick, children } ) {
	return <button type="button" onClick={ onClick }>{ children }</button>;
}

const { withDispatch } = wp.data;

const SaleButton = withDispatch( ( dispatch, ownProps, { select } ) => {
	// Stock number changes frequently.
	const { getStockNumber } = select( 'my-shop' );
	const { startSale } = dispatch( 'my-shop' );

	return {
		onClick() {
			const dicountPercent = getStockNumber() > 50 ? 10 : 20;
			startSale( discountPercent );
		},
	};
} )( Button );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <SaleButton>Start Sale!</SaleButton>
```

_Note:_ It is important that the `mapDispatchToProps` function always returns an object with the same keys. For example, it should not contain conditions under which a different value would be returned.

_Parameters_

-   _mapDispatchToProps_ `Object`: Object of prop names where value is a dispatch-bound action creator, or a function to be called with with the component's props and returning an action creator.

_Returns_

-   `Component`: Enhanced component with merged dispatcher props.

<a name="withRegistry" href="#withRegistry">#</a> **withRegistry**

Higher-order component which renders the original component with the current
registry context passed as its `registry` prop.

_Parameters_

-   _OriginalComponent_ `WPComponent`: Original component.

_Returns_

-   `WPComponent`: Enhanced component.

<a name="withSelect" href="#withSelect">#</a> **withSelect**

Higher-order component used to inject state-derived props using registered
selectors.

_Usage_

```js
function PriceDisplay( { price, currency } ) {
	return new Intl.NumberFormat( 'en-US', {
		style: 'currency',
		currency,
	} ).format( price );
}

const { withSelect } = wp.data;

const HammerPriceDisplay = withSelect( ( select, ownProps ) => {
	const { getPrice } = select( 'my-shop' );
	const { currency } = ownProps;

	return {
		price: getPrice( 'hammer', currency ),
	};
} )( PriceDisplay );

// Rendered in the application:
//
//  <HammerPriceDisplay currency="USD" />
```

In the above example, when `HammerPriceDisplay` is rendered into an application, it will pass the price into the underlying `PriceDisplay` component and update automatically if the price of a hammer ever changes in the store.

_Parameters_

-   _mapSelectToProps_ `Function`: Function called on every state change, expected to return object of props to merge with the component's own props.

_Returns_

-   `Component`: Enhanced component with merged state data props.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>
