packages/components/src/notice/README.md, before:

# Notice

Use Notices to communicate prominent messages to the user.

![Notice component](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Screenshot-alt.png)

## Table of contents

1. [Design guidelines](#design-guidelines)
2. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
3. [Related components](#related-components)

## Design guidelines

A Notice displays a succinct message. It can also offer the user options, like viewing a published post or updating a setting, and requires a user action to be dismissed.

Use Notices to communicate things that are important but don’t necessarily require action — a user can keep using the product even if they don’t choose to act on a Notice. They are less interruptive than a Modal.

### Anatomy

![Diagram of a Notice component with numbered labels](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Anatomy.png)

1. Container (status indicated with color)
2. Icon (optional)
3. Message
4. Dismiss icon (optional)

### Usage

Notices display at the top of the screen, below any toolbars anchored to the top of the page. They’re persistent and non-modal. Since they don’t overlay the content, users can ignore or dismiss them, and choose when to interact with them.

![](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-States.png)

Notices are color-coded to indicate the type of message being communicated:

-   **Default** notices have **no background**.
-   **Informational** notices are **blue.**
-   **Success** notices are **green.**
-   **Warning** notices are **yellow\*\***.\*\*
-   **Error** notices are **red.**

If an icon is included in the Notice, it should be color-coded to match the Notice state.

![A success Notice for updating a post](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-1-alt.png)

**Do**
Do use a Notice when you want to communicate a message of medium importance.

![A Notice that requires an immediate action](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-1-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't use a Notice for a message that requires immediate attention and action from the user. Use a Modal for this instead.

![A success Notice for publishing a post](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-2-alt.png)

**Do**
Do display Notices at the top of the screen, below any toolbars.

![A success Notice on top of the editor toolbar](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-2-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't show Notices on top of toolbars.

![An error Notice using red](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-3-alt.png)

**Do**
Do use color to indicate the type of message being communicated.

![An error Notice using purple](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-3-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't apply any colors other than those for Warnings, Success, or Errors.

## Development guidelines

### Usage

To display a plain notice, pass `Notice` a string:

```jsx
const MyNotice = () => (
	<Notice status="error">An unknown error occurred.</Notice>
);
```

For more complex markup, you can pass any JSX element:

```jsx
const MyNotice = () => (
	<Notice status="error">
		<p>
			An error occurred: <code>{ errorDetails }</code>.
		</p>
	</Notice>
);
```

#### Props

The following props are used to control the behavior of the component.

-   `children`: (string) The displayed message of a notice. Also used as the spoken message for assistive technology, unless `spokenMessage` is provided as an alternative message.
-   `spokenMessage`: (string) Used to provide a custom spoken message in place of the `children` default.
-   `status`: (string) can be `warning` (yellow), `success` (green), `error` (red), or `info`. Defaults to `info`.
-   `onRemove`: function called when dismissing the notice
-   `politeness`: (string) A politeness level for the notice's spoken message. Should be provided as one of the valid options for [an `aria-live` attribute value](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#aria-live). If not provided, a sensible default is used based on the notice status. Note that this value should be considered a suggestion; assistive technologies may override it based on internal heuristics.
    -   A value of `'assertive'` is to be used for important, and usually time-sensitive, information. It will interrupt anything else the screen reader is announcing in that moment.
    -   A value of `'polite'` is to be used for advisory information. It should not interrupt what the screen reader is announcing in that moment (the "speech queue") or interrupt the current task.
-   `isDismissible`: (boolean) defaults to true, whether the notice should be dismissible or not
-   `actions`: (array) an array of action objects. Each member object should contain a `label` and either a `url` link string or `onClick` callback function. A `className` property can be used to add custom classes to the button styles. The default appearance of the button is inferred based on whether `url` or `onClick` are provided, rendering the button as a link if appropriate. A `noDefaultClasses` property value of `true` will remove all default styling. You can denote a primary button action for a notice by passing the `variant` property with a value of `primary`.

## Related components

-   To create a more prominent message that requires action, use a Modal.

Commit message:

Add onDismiss callback for notice

packages/components/src/notice/README.md, after:

# Notice

Use Notices to communicate prominent messages to the user.

![Notice component](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Screenshot-alt.png)

## Table of contents

1. [Design guidelines](#design-guidelines)
2. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
3. [Related components](#related-components)

## Design guidelines

A Notice displays a succinct message. It can also offer the user options, like viewing a published post or updating a setting, and requires a user action to be dismissed.

Use Notices to communicate things that are important but don’t necessarily require action — a user can keep using the product even if they don’t choose to act on a Notice. They are less interruptive than a Modal.

### Anatomy

![Diagram of a Notice component with numbered labels](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Anatomy.png)

1. Container (status indicated with color)
2. Icon (optional)
3. Message
4. Dismiss icon (optional)

### Usage

Notices display at the top of the screen, below any toolbars anchored to the top of the page. They’re persistent and non-modal. Since they don’t overlay the content, users can ignore or dismiss them, and choose when to interact with them.

![](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-States.png)

Notices are color-coded to indicate the type of message being communicated:

-   **Default** notices have **no background**.
-   **Informational** notices are **blue.**
-   **Success** notices are **green.**
-   **Warning** notices are **yellow\*\***.\*\*
-   **Error** notices are **red.**

If an icon is included in the Notice, it should be color-coded to match the Notice state.

![A success Notice for updating a post](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-1-alt.png)

**Do**
Do use a Notice when you want to communicate a message of medium importance.

![A Notice that requires an immediate action](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-1-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't use a Notice for a message that requires immediate attention and action from the user. Use a Modal for this instead.

![A success Notice for publishing a post](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-2-alt.png)

**Do**
Do display Notices at the top of the screen, below any toolbars.

![A success Notice on top of the editor toolbar](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-2-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't show Notices on top of toolbars.

![An error Notice using red](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Do-3-alt.png)

**Do**
Do use color to indicate the type of message being communicated.

![An error Notice using purple](https://make.wordpress.org/design/files/2019/03/Notice-Dont-3-alt.png)

**Don’t**
Don't apply any colors other than those for Warnings, Success, or Errors.

## Development guidelines

### Usage

To display a plain notice, pass `Notice` a string:

```jsx
const MyNotice = () => (
	<Notice status="error">An unknown error occurred.</Notice>
);
```

For more complex markup, you can pass any JSX element:

```jsx
const MyNotice = () => (
	<Notice status="error">
		<p>
			An error occurred: <code>{ errorDetails }</code>.
		</p>
	</Notice>
);
```

#### Props

The following props are used to control the behavior of the component.

-   `children`: (string) The displayed message of a notice. Also used as the spoken message for assistive technology, unless `spokenMessage` is provided as an alternative message.
-   `spokenMessage`: (string) Used to provide a custom spoken message in place of the `children` default.
-   `status`: (string) can be `warning` (yellow), `success` (green), `error` (red), or `info`. Defaults to `info`.
-   `onRemove`: function called when dismissing the notice
-   `politeness`: (string) A politeness level for the notice's spoken message. Should be provided as one of the valid options for [an `aria-live` attribute value](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#aria-live). If not provided, a sensible default is used based on the notice status. Note that this value should be considered a suggestion; assistive technologies may override it based on internal heuristics.
    -   A value of `'assertive'` is to be used for important, and usually time-sensitive, information. It will interrupt anything else the screen reader is announcing in that moment.
    -   A value of `'polite'` is to be used for advisory information. It should not interrupt what the screen reader is announcing in that moment (the "speech queue") or interrupt the current task.
-   `isDismissible`: (boolean) defaults to true, whether the notice should be dismissible or not
-   `onDismiss` : callback function which is executed when the notice is dismissed. It is distinct from onRemove, which _looks_ like a callback but is actually the function to call to remove the notice from the UI.
-   `actions`: (array) an array of action objects. Each member object should contain a `label` and either a `url` link string or `onClick` callback function. A `className` property can be used to add custom classes to the button styles. The default appearance of the button is inferred based on whether `url` or `onClick` are provided, rendering the button as a link if appropriate. A `noDefaultClasses` property value of `true` will remove all default styling. You can denote a primary button action for a notice by passing the `variant` property with a value of `primary`.

## Related components

-   To create a more prominent message that requires action, use a Modal.
