packages/block-editor/src/components/block-breadcrumb/README.md, before:

# Block Breadcrumb

The block breadcrumb trail displays the hierarchy of the current block selection as a breadcrumb. It also allows, using this hierarchy, to navigate to the parent elements of the current block selection. It is located at the very bottom of the editor interface.

![Button block breadcrumb](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/08/gutenberg-button-block-breadcrumb.png)

![Image in column block breadcrumb](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/08/gutenberg-image-in-column-block-breadcrumb.png)

## Table of contents

1. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
2. [Related components](#related-components)

## Development guidelines

### Usage

Renders a block breadcrumb with default style.

```jsx
import { BlockBreadcrumb } from '@wordpress/block-editor';

const MyBreadcrumb = () => <BlockBreadcrumb />;
```

## Related components

Block Editor components are components that can be used to compose the UI of your block editor. Thus, they can only be used under a [`BlockEditorProvider`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/block-editor/src/components/provider/README.md) in the components tree.

Commit message:

Adding a `rootLabelText` prop to `<BlockBreadcrumb />` so that we can have flexibility to change the label or just provide a more appropriate label for the "root" element in different editor contexts, for example the Widgets editor root level could be "Widgets". "Document" in the Site Editor could be the name of the site template one day.
Adding snapshot tests

Rebuilding docs

packages/block-editor/src/components/block-breadcrumb/README.md, after:

# Block Breadcrumb

The block breadcrumb trail displays the hierarchy of the current block selection as a breadcrumb. It also allows, using this hierarchy, to navigate to the parent elements of the current block selection. It is located at the very bottom of the editor interface.

![Button block breadcrumb](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/08/gutenberg-button-block-breadcrumb.png)

![Image in column block breadcrumb](https://make.wordpress.org/core/files/2020/08/gutenberg-image-in-column-block-breadcrumb.png)

## Table of contents

1. [Development guidelines](#development-guidelines)
2. [Related components](#related-components)

## Development guidelines

#### Props

##### rootLabelText

Label text for the root element (the first `<li />`) of the breadcrumb trail.

-   Type: `String`
-   Required: No

### Usage

Renders a block breadcrumb with default style.

```jsx
import { BlockBreadcrumb } from '@wordpress/block-editor';

const MyBreadcrumb = () => <BlockBreadcrumb />;
```

## Related components

Block Editor components are components that can be used to compose the UI of your block editor. Thus, they can only be used under a [`BlockEditorProvider`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/block-editor/src/components/provider/README.md) in the components tree.
