packages/components/src/drop-zone/README.md, before:

# DropZone

`DropZone` is a Component creating a drop zone area taking the full size of its parent element. It supports dropping files, HTML content or any other HTML drop event. To work properly this components needs to be wrapped in a `DropZoneProvider`.

## Usage

```jsx
import { DropZoneProvider, DropZone } from '@wordpress/components';
import { withState } from '@wordpress/compose';

const MyDropZone = withState( {
	hasDropped: false,
} )( ( { hasDropped, setState } ) => (
	<DropZoneProvider>
		<div>
			{ hasDropped ? 'Dropped!' : 'Drop something here' }
			<DropZone 
				onFilesDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } ) }
				onHTMLDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } )  }
				onDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } ) } 
			/>
		</div>
	</DropZoneProvider>
) );
```

## Props

The component accepts the following props:

### className

A CSS `class` to be _appended_ after the default `components-drop-zone` class.

- Type: `String`
- Default: `undefined`

### label

A string to be shown within the drop zone area.

- Type: `String`
- Default: `Drop files to upload`

### onFilesDrop

The function is called when dropping a file into the `DropZone`. It receives two arguments: an array of dropped files and a position object which the following shape: `{ x: 'left|right', y: 'top|bottom' }`. The position object indicates whether the drop event happened closer to the top or bottom edges and left or right ones.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`

### onHTMLDrop

The function is called when dropping a file into the `DropZone`. It receives two arguments: the HTML being dropped and a position object.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`

### onDrop

The function is generic drop handler called if the `onFilesDrop` or `onHTMLDrop` are not called. It receives two arguments: The drop `event` object and the position object.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`

Commit message:

Remove mention of position from docs, this functionality was dropped from WordPress 5.4

packages/components/src/drop-zone/README.md, after:

# DropZone

`DropZone` is a Component creating a drop zone area taking the full size of its parent element. It supports dropping files, HTML content or any other HTML drop event. To work properly this components needs to be wrapped in a `DropZoneProvider`.

## Usage

```jsx
import { DropZoneProvider, DropZone } from '@wordpress/components';
import { withState } from '@wordpress/compose';

const MyDropZone = withState( {
	hasDropped: false,
} )( ( { hasDropped, setState } ) => (
	<DropZoneProvider>
		<div>
			{ hasDropped ? 'Dropped!' : 'Drop something here' }
			<DropZone 
				onFilesDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } ) }
				onHTMLDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } )  }
				onDrop={ () => setState( { hasDropped: true } ) } 
			/>
		</div>
	</DropZoneProvider>
) );
```

## Props

The component accepts the following props:

### className

A CSS `class` to be _appended_ after the default `components-drop-zone` class.

- Type: `String`
- Default: `undefined`

### label

A string to be shown within the drop zone area.

- Type: `String`
- Default: `Drop files to upload`

### onFilesDrop

The function is called when dropping a file into the `DropZone`. It receives an array of dropped files as an argument.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`

### onHTMLDrop

The function is called when dropping a file into the `DropZone`. It receives the HTML being dropped as an argument.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`

### onDrop

The function is generic drop handler called if the `onFilesDrop` or `onHTMLDrop` are not called. It receives the drop `event` object as an argument.

- Type: `Function`
- Required: No
- Default: `noop`
