packages/project-management-automation/README.md, before:

# Gutenberg project management automation

This is a [GitHub Action](https://help.github.com/en/categories/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions) which contains various automation to assist with managing the Gutenberg GitHub repository:

- [First Time Contributor](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/first-time-contributor): Adds the "First Time Contributor" label to pull requests merged on behalf of contributors that have not previously made a contribution, and prompts the user to link their GitHub account to their WordPress.org profile if necessary for release notes credit.
- [Add Milestone](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/add-milestone): Assigns the plugin release milestone to a pull request once it is merged.
- [Assign Fixed Issues](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/assign-fixed-issues): Adds assignee for issues which are marked to be "Fixed" by a pull request, and adds the "In Progress" label.

# Installation and usage

To use the action, include it in your workflow configuration file:

```yaml
on: pull_request
jobs:
  pull-request-automation:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: WordPress/gutenberg/packages/project-management-automation@master
        with:
          github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}

```

# API

## Inputs

- `github_token`: Required. GitHub API token to use for making API requests. This should be stored as a secret in the GitHub repository.

## Outputs

_None._

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>

Commit message:

Project Management Automation: Add task Block Management Warning

packages/project-management-automation/README.md, after:

# Gutenberg project management automation

This is a [GitHub Action](https://help.github.com/en/categories/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions) which contains various automation to assist with managing the Gutenberg GitHub repository:

- [First Time Contributor](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/first-time-contributor): Adds the "First Time Contributor" label to pull requests merged on behalf of contributors that have not previously made a contribution, and prompts the user to link their GitHub account to their WordPress.org profile if necessary for release notes credit.
- [Add Milestone](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/add-milestone): Assigns the plugin release milestone to a pull request once it is merged.
- [Assign Fixed Issues](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/assign-fixed-issues): Adds assignee for issues which are marked to be "Fixed" by a pull request, and adds the "In Progress" label.
- [Block Deprecation Warning](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/master/packages/project-management-automation/lib/tasks/block-deprecation-warning): Adds a comment to a pull request which contains edits to a block implementation `save.js` file if there is no corresponding revisions to the block's `deprecated.js`.

# Installation and usage

To use the action, include it in your workflow configuration file:

```yaml
on: pull_request
jobs:
  pull-request-automation:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: WordPress/gutenberg/packages/project-management-automation@master
        with:
          github_token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}

```

# API

## Inputs

- `github_token`: Required. GitHub API token to use for making API requests. This should be stored as a secret in the GitHub repository.

## Outputs

_None._

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>
