packages/dom/README.md, before:

# DOM

DOM utilities module for WordPress.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/dom --save
```

## API

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<a name="computeCaretRect" href="#computeCaretRect">#</a> **computeCaretRect**

Get the rectangle for the selection in a container.

_Returns_

-   `?DOMRect`: The rectangle.

<a name="documentHasSelection" href="#documentHasSelection">#</a> **documentHasSelection**

Check wether the current document has a selection.
This checks both for focus in an input field and general text selection.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if there is selection, false if not.

<a name="focus" href="#focus">#</a> **focus**

Object grouping `focusable` and `tabbable` utils
under the keys with the same name.

<a name="getOffsetParent" href="#getOffsetParent">#</a> **getOffsetParent**

Returns the closest positioned element, or null under any of the conditions
of the offsetParent specification. Unlike offsetParent, this function is not
limited to HTMLElement and accepts any Node (e.g. Node.TEXT_NODE).

_Related_

-   <https://drafts.csswg.org/cssom-view/#dom-htmlelement-offsetparent>

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Node`: Node from which to find offset parent.

_Returns_

-   `?Node`: Offset parent.

<a name="getRectangleFromRange" href="#getRectangleFromRange">#</a> **getRectangleFromRange**

Get the rectangle of a given Range.

_Parameters_

-   _range_ `Range`: The range.

_Returns_

-   `DOMRect`: The rectangle.

<a name="getScrollContainer" href="#getScrollContainer">#</a> **getScrollContainer**

Given a DOM node, finds the closest scrollable container node.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: Node from which to start.

_Returns_

-   `?Element`: Scrollable container node, if found.

<a name="insertAfter" href="#insertAfter">#</a> **insertAfter**

Given two DOM nodes, inserts the former in the DOM as the next sibling of
the latter.

_Parameters_

-   _newNode_ `Element`: Node to be inserted.
-   _referenceNode_ `Element`: Node after which to perform the insertion.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="isEntirelySelected" href="#isEntirelySelected">#</a> **isEntirelySelected**

Check whether the contents of the element have been entirely selected.
Returns true if there is no possibility of selection.

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `Element`: The element to check.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if entirely selected, false if not.

<a name="isHorizontalEdge" href="#isHorizontalEdge">#</a> **isHorizontalEdge**

Check whether the selection is horizontally at the edge of the container.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: Set to true to check left, false for right.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if at the horizontal edge, false if not.

<a name="isNumberInput" href="#isNumberInput">#</a> **isNumberInput**

Check whether the given element is an input field of type number
and has a valueAsNumber

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `HTMLElement`: The HTML element.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if the element is input and holds a number.

<a name="isTextField" href="#isTextField">#</a> **isTextField**

Check whether the given element is a text field, where text field is defined
by the ability to select within the input, or that it is contenteditable.

See: <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#textFieldSelection>

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `HTMLElement`: The HTML element.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if the element is an text field, false if not.

<a name="isVerticalEdge" href="#isVerticalEdge">#</a> **isVerticalEdge**

Check whether the selection is vertically at the edge of the container.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: Set to true to check top, false for bottom.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if at the vertical edge, false if not.

<a name="placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge" href="#placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge">#</a> **placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge**

Places the caret at start or end of a given element.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: True for end, false for start.

<a name="placeCaretAtVerticalEdge" href="#placeCaretAtVerticalEdge">#</a> **placeCaretAtVerticalEdge**

Places the caret at the top or bottom of a given element.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: True for bottom, false for top.
-   _rect_ `[DOMRect]`: The rectangle to position the caret with.
-   _mayUseScroll_ `[boolean]`: True to allow scrolling, false to disallow.

<a name="remove" href="#remove">#</a> **remove**

Given a DOM node, removes it from the DOM.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: Node to be removed.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="replace" href="#replace">#</a> **replace**

Given two DOM nodes, replaces the former with the latter in the DOM.

_Parameters_

-   _processedNode_ `Element`: Node to be removed.
-   _newNode_ `Element`: Node to be inserted in its place.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="replaceTag" href="#replaceTag">#</a> **replaceTag**

Replaces the given node with a new node with the given tag name.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: The node to replace
-   _tagName_ `string`: The new tag name.

_Returns_

-   `Element`: The new node.

<a name="unwrap" href="#unwrap">#</a> **unwrap**

Unwrap the given node. This means any child nodes are moved to the parent.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Node`: The node to unwrap.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="wrap" href="#wrap">#</a> **wrap**

Wraps the given node with a new node with the given tag name.

_Parameters_

-   _newNode_ `Element`: The node to insert.
-   _referenceNode_ `Element`: The node to wrap.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>

Commit message:

Writing flow: Copy whole block if no text is selected (#22186)
* Writing flow: Copy whole block if no text is selected

* Append change to package changelog

* Consider full selection when not copying/cutting

* Copy notice: Reveal block type if only one block copied

* Flash block outline in response to copy action

* Notify of copy and cut actions w/ useNotifyCopy hook

* Reduce block highlight time.

* Block Editor: Add action `flashBlock`

* E2E: Test whole-block copy, cut and paste

Co-authored-by: Matías Ventura <mv@matiasventura.com>

packages/dom/README.md, after:

# DOM

DOM utilities module for WordPress.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/dom --save
```

## API

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<a name="computeCaretRect" href="#computeCaretRect">#</a> **computeCaretRect**

Get the rectangle for the selection in a container.

_Returns_

-   `?DOMRect`: The rectangle.

<a name="documentHasSelection" href="#documentHasSelection">#</a> **documentHasSelection**

Check whether the current document has a selection. This checks for both
focus in an input field and general text selection.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if there is selection, false if not.

<a name="documentHasTextSelection" href="#documentHasTextSelection">#</a> **documentHasTextSelection**

Check whether the current document has selected text.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if there is selection, false if not.

<a name="focus" href="#focus">#</a> **focus**

Object grouping `focusable` and `tabbable` utils
under the keys with the same name.

<a name="getOffsetParent" href="#getOffsetParent">#</a> **getOffsetParent**

Returns the closest positioned element, or null under any of the conditions
of the offsetParent specification. Unlike offsetParent, this function is not
limited to HTMLElement and accepts any Node (e.g. Node.TEXT_NODE).

_Related_

-   <https://drafts.csswg.org/cssom-view/#dom-htmlelement-offsetparent>

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Node`: Node from which to find offset parent.

_Returns_

-   `?Node`: Offset parent.

<a name="getRectangleFromRange" href="#getRectangleFromRange">#</a> **getRectangleFromRange**

Get the rectangle of a given Range.

_Parameters_

-   _range_ `Range`: The range.

_Returns_

-   `DOMRect`: The rectangle.

<a name="getScrollContainer" href="#getScrollContainer">#</a> **getScrollContainer**

Given a DOM node, finds the closest scrollable container node.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: Node from which to start.

_Returns_

-   `?Element`: Scrollable container node, if found.

<a name="insertAfter" href="#insertAfter">#</a> **insertAfter**

Given two DOM nodes, inserts the former in the DOM as the next sibling of
the latter.

_Parameters_

-   _newNode_ `Element`: Node to be inserted.
-   _referenceNode_ `Element`: Node after which to perform the insertion.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="isEntirelySelected" href="#isEntirelySelected">#</a> **isEntirelySelected**

Check whether the contents of the element have been entirely selected.
Returns true if there is no possibility of selection.

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `Element`: The element to check.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if entirely selected, false if not.

<a name="isHorizontalEdge" href="#isHorizontalEdge">#</a> **isHorizontalEdge**

Check whether the selection is horizontally at the edge of the container.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: Set to true to check left, false for right.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if at the horizontal edge, false if not.

<a name="isNumberInput" href="#isNumberInput">#</a> **isNumberInput**

Check whether the given element is an input field of type number
and has a valueAsNumber

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `HTMLElement`: The HTML element.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if the element is input and holds a number.

<a name="isTextField" href="#isTextField">#</a> **isTextField**

Check whether the given element is a text field, where text field is defined
by the ability to select within the input, or that it is contenteditable.

See: <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#textFieldSelection>

_Parameters_

-   _element_ `HTMLElement`: The HTML element.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if the element is an text field, false if not.

<a name="isVerticalEdge" href="#isVerticalEdge">#</a> **isVerticalEdge**

Check whether the selection is vertically at the edge of the container.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: Set to true to check top, false for bottom.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if at the vertical edge, false if not.

<a name="placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge" href="#placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge">#</a> **placeCaretAtHorizontalEdge**

Places the caret at start or end of a given element.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: True for end, false for start.

<a name="placeCaretAtVerticalEdge" href="#placeCaretAtVerticalEdge">#</a> **placeCaretAtVerticalEdge**

Places the caret at the top or bottom of a given element.

_Parameters_

-   _container_ `Element`: Focusable element.
-   _isReverse_ `boolean`: True for bottom, false for top.
-   _rect_ `[DOMRect]`: The rectangle to position the caret with.
-   _mayUseScroll_ `[boolean]`: True to allow scrolling, false to disallow.

<a name="remove" href="#remove">#</a> **remove**

Given a DOM node, removes it from the DOM.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: Node to be removed.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="replace" href="#replace">#</a> **replace**

Given two DOM nodes, replaces the former with the latter in the DOM.

_Parameters_

-   _processedNode_ `Element`: Node to be removed.
-   _newNode_ `Element`: Node to be inserted in its place.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="replaceTag" href="#replaceTag">#</a> **replaceTag**

Replaces the given node with a new node with the given tag name.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Element`: The node to replace
-   _tagName_ `string`: The new tag name.

_Returns_

-   `Element`: The new node.

<a name="unwrap" href="#unwrap">#</a> **unwrap**

Unwrap the given node. This means any child nodes are moved to the parent.

_Parameters_

-   _node_ `Node`: The node to unwrap.

_Returns_

-   `void`: 

<a name="wrap" href="#wrap">#</a> **wrap**

Wraps the given node with a new node with the given tag name.

_Parameters_

-   _newNode_ `Element`: The node to insert.
-   _referenceNode_ `Element`: The node to wrap.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated API docs) -->

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>
