# Edit navigation

Namespace: `core/edit-navigation`.

## Selectors

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors|../../../packages/edit-navigation/src/store/selectors.js) -->

### getNavigationPostForMenu

Returns a "stub" navigation post reflecting the contents of menu with id=menuId. The
post is meant as a convenient to only exists in runtime and should never be saved. It
enables a convenient way of editing the navigation by using a regular post editor.

Related resolver fetches all menu items, converts them into blocks, and hydrates a new post with them.

_Parameters_

-   _menuId_ `number`: The id of menu to create a post from.

_Returns_

-   `null|Object`: Post once the resolver fetches it, otherwise null

### hasResolvedNavigationPost

Returns true if the navigation post related to menuId was already resolved.

_Parameters_

-   _menuId_ `number`: The id of menu.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if the navigation post related to menuId was already resolved, false otherwise.

### isInserterOpened

Returns true if the inserter is opened.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Global application state.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: Whether the inserter is opened.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors|../../../packages/edit-navigation/src/store/selectors.js) -->

## Actions

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated actions|../../../packages/edit-navigation/src/store/actions.js) -->

### saveNavigationPost

Converts all the blocks into menu items and submits a batch request to save everything at once.

_Parameters_

-   _post_ `Object`: A navigation post to process

_Returns_

-   `Function`: An action creator

### setIsInserterOpened

Returns an action object used to open/close the inserter.

_Parameters_

-   _value_ `boolean|Object`: Whether the inserter should be opened (true) or closed (false). To specify an insertion point, use an object.
-   _value.rootClientId_ `string`: The root client ID to insert at.
-   _value.insertionIndex_ `number`: The index to insert at.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated actions|../../../packages/edit-navigation/src/store/actions.js) -->
