packages/editor/src/store/block-sources/README.md, before:

Block Sources
=============

By default, the blocks module supports only attributes serialized into a block's comment demarcations, or those sourced from a [standard set of sources](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-attributes/). Since the blocks module is intended to be used in a number of contexts outside the post editor, the implementation of additional context-specific sources must be implemented as an external process.

The post editor supports such additional sources for attributes (e.g. `meta` source).

These sources are implemented here using a uniform interface for applying and responding to block updates to sourced attributes. In the future, this interface may be generalized to allow third-party extensions to either extend the post editor sources or implement their own in custom renderings of a block editor.

## Source API

### `apply`

Store control called when the editor blocks value is changed. Given a block object, returns a new block with the sourced attribute value assigned.

### `applyAll`

Store control called when the editor blocks value is changed. Given an array of blocks, modifies block entries which source from a sourced property, responsible for returning a new block array with attribute values assigned.

### `update`

Store control called when a single block's attributes have been updated, before the new block value has taken effect (i.e. before `apply` and `applyAll` are once again called). Given the attribute schema and updated value, the control should reflect the update on the source.

Commit message:

Editor: Update block sources documentation per interface changes

packages/editor/src/store/block-sources/README.md, after:

Block Sources
=============

By default, the blocks module supports only attributes serialized into a block's comment demarcations, or those sourced from a [standard set of sources](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/developers/block-api/block-attributes/). Since the blocks module is intended to be used in a number of contexts outside the post editor, the implementation of additional context-specific sources must be implemented as an external process.

The post editor supports such additional sources for attributes (e.g. `meta` source).

These sources are implemented here using a uniform interface for applying and responding to block updates to sourced attributes. In the future, this interface may be generalized to allow third-party extensions to either extend the post editor sources or implement their own in custom renderings of a block editor.

## Source API

### `getDependencies`

Store control called on every store change, expected to return an object whose values represent the data blocks assigned this source depend. When these values change, all blocks assigned this source are automatically updated. The value returned from this function is passed as the second argument of the source's `apply` function, where it is expected to be used as shared data relevant for sourcing the attribute value.

### `apply`

Function called to retrieve an attribute value for a block. Given the attribute schema and the dependencies defined by the source's `getDependencies`, the function should return the expected attribute value.

### `update`

Store control called when a single block's attributes have been updated, before the new block value has taken effect (i.e. before `apply` and `applyAll` are once again called). Given the attribute schema and updated value, the control should reflect the update on the source.
