docs/designers-developers/developers/block-api/block-patterns.md, before:

# Patterns (Experimental)

Patterns are predefined block layouts, ready to insert and tweak. 

**Note** Patterns are still under heavy development and the APIs are subject to change.

## Patterns Registration

### register_block_pattern

The editor comes with a list of built-in patterns. Theme and plugin authors can register addition custom patterns using the `register_block_pattern` function.

The `register_block_pattern` function receives the name of the pattern as the first argument and an array describing properties of the pattern as the second argument.

The properties of the pattern include:
 - `title` (required): A human-readable title for the pattern.
 - `content` (required): Raw HTML content for the pattern.
 - `categories`: A list of pattern categories used to group patterns. Patterns can be shown on multiple categories.
 - `keywords`: Aliases or keywords that help users discover it while searching.

```php
register_block_pattern(
    'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern',
    array(
		'title'   => __( 'Two buttons', 'my-plugin' ),
        'content' => "<!-- wp:buttons {\"align\":\"center\"} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-buttons aligncenter\"><!-- wp:button {\"backgroundColor\":\"very-dark-gray\",\"borderRadius\":0} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-button\"><a class=\"wp-block-button__link has-background has-very-dark-gray-background-color no-border-radius\">" . esc_html__( 'Button One', 'my-plugin' ) . "</a></div>\n<!-- /wp:button -->\n\n<!-- wp:button {\"textColor\":\"very-dark-gray\",\"borderRadius\":0,\"className\":\"is-style-outline\"} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-button is-style-outline\"><a class=\"wp-block-button__link has-text-color has-very-dark-gray-color no-border-radius\">" . esc_html__( 'Button Two', 'my-plugin' ) . "</a></div>\n<!-- /wp:button --></div>\n<!-- /wp:buttons -->",
    )
);
```

### unregister_block_pattern

`unregister_block_pattern` allows unregistering a pattern previously registered on the server using `register_block_pattern`.

The function's argument is the registered name of the pattern.

The following code sample unregisters the style named 'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern':

```php
unregister_block_pattern( 'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern' );
```

## Pattern Categories

Patterns can be grouped using categories. The block editor comes with bundled categories you can use on your custom patterns. You can also register your own pattern categories.

### register_block_pattern_category

The `register_block_pattern_category` function receives the name of the category as the first argument and an array describing properties of the category as the second argument.

The properties of the pattern categories include:
 - `label` (required): A human-readable label for the pattern category.

```php
register_block_pattern_category(
	'hero',
	array( 'label' => __( 'Hero', 'my-plugin' ) )
);
```

### unregister_block_pattern_category

`unregister_block_pattern_category` allows unregistering a pattern category.

The function's argument is the name of the pattern category to unregister.

The following code sample unregisters the category named 'hero':

```php
unregister_block_pattern_category( 'hero' );
```

Commit message:

Add doing it wrong messages
Adds doing_it_wrong messages for the required properties.
Adds descriptions to the block patterns.
Updates documentation with the description and viewportWidth.

docs/designers-developers/developers/block-api/block-patterns.md, after:

# Patterns (Experimental)

Patterns are predefined block layouts, ready to insert and tweak. 

**Note** Patterns are still under heavy development and the APIs are subject to change.

## Patterns Registration

### register_block_pattern

The editor comes with a list of built-in patterns. Theme and plugin authors can register addition custom patterns using the `register_block_pattern` function.

The `register_block_pattern` function receives the name of the pattern as the first argument and an array describing properties of the pattern as the second argument.

The properties of the pattern include:
 - `title` (required): A human-readable title for the pattern.
 - `content` (required): Raw HTML content for the pattern.
 - `description` (required): A description of the pattern. Used to describe the pattern in the inserter.
 - `categories`: A list of pattern categories used to group patterns. Patterns can be shown on multiple categories.
 - `keywords`: Aliases or keywords that help users discover it while searching.
 - `viewportWidth`: Specify the width of the block in the inserter.

```php
register_block_pattern(
	'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern',
	array(
		'title'       => __( 'Two buttons', 'my-plugin' ),
		'description' => _x( 'Two horizontal buttons, the left button is filled in, and the right button is outlined.', 'Block pattern description', 'my-plugin' ),
		'content'     => "<!-- wp:buttons {\"align\":\"center\"} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-buttons aligncenter\"><!-- wp:button {\"backgroundColor\":\"very-dark-gray\",\"borderRadius\":0} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-button\"><a class=\"wp-block-button__link has-background has-very-dark-gray-background-color no-border-radius\">" . esc_html__( 'Button One', 'my-plugin' ) . "</a></div>\n<!-- /wp:button -->\n\n<!-- wp:button {\"textColor\":\"very-dark-gray\",\"borderRadius\":0,\"className\":\"is-style-outline\"} -->\n<div class=\"wp-block-button is-style-outline\"><a class=\"wp-block-button__link has-text-color has-very-dark-gray-color no-border-radius\">" . esc_html__( 'Button Two', 'my-plugin' ) . "</a></div>\n<!-- /wp:button --></div>\n<!-- /wp:buttons -->",
	)
);
```

### unregister_block_pattern

`unregister_block_pattern` allows unregistering a pattern previously registered on the server using `register_block_pattern`.

The function's argument is the registered name of the pattern.

The following code sample unregisters the style named 'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern':

```php
unregister_block_pattern( 'my-plugin/my-awesome-pattern' );
```

## Pattern Categories

Patterns can be grouped using categories. The block editor comes with bundled categories you can use on your custom patterns. You can also register your own pattern categories.

### register_block_pattern_category

The `register_block_pattern_category` function receives the name of the category as the first argument and an array describing properties of the category as the second argument.

The properties of the pattern categories include:
 - `label` (required): A human-readable label for the pattern category.

```php
register_block_pattern_category(
	'hero',
	array( 'label' => __( 'Hero', 'my-plugin' ) )
);
```

### unregister_block_pattern_category

`unregister_block_pattern_category` allows unregistering a pattern category.

The function's argument is the name of the pattern category to unregister.

The following code sample unregisters the category named 'hero':

```php
unregister_block_pattern_category( 'hero' );
```
