docs/designers-developers/developers/data/data-core-blocks.md, before:

# Block Types Data

Namespace: `core/blocks`.

## Selectors

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors) -->

<a name="getBlockStyles" href="#getBlockStyles">#</a> **getBlockStyles**

Returns block styles by block name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _name_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `?Array`: Block Styles.

<a name="getBlockSupport" href="#getBlockSupport">#</a> **getBlockSupport**

Returns the block support value for a feature, if defined.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object
-   _feature_ `string`: Feature to retrieve
-   _defaultSupports_ `*`: Default value to return if not explicitly defined

_Returns_

-   `?*`: Block support value

<a name="getBlockType" href="#getBlockType">#</a> **getBlockType**

Returns a block type by name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _name_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `?Object`: Block Type.

<a name="getBlockTypes" href="#getBlockTypes">#</a> **getBlockTypes**

Returns all the available block types.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Block Types.

<a name="getCategories" href="#getCategories">#</a> **getCategories**

Returns all the available categories.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Categories list.

<a name="getChildBlockNames" href="#getChildBlockNames">#</a> **getChildBlockNames**

Returns an array with the child blocks of a given block.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Array of child block names.

<a name="getDefaultBlockName" href="#getDefaultBlockName">#</a> **getDefaultBlockName**

Returns the name of the default block name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Default block name.

<a name="getFreeformFallbackBlockName" href="#getFreeformFallbackBlockName">#</a> **getFreeformFallbackBlockName**

Returns the name of the block for handling non-block content.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Name of the block for handling non-block content.

<a name="getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName" href="#getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName">#</a> **getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName**

Returns the name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

<a name="hasBlockSupport" href="#hasBlockSupport">#</a> **hasBlockSupport**

Returns true if the block defines support for a feature, or false otherwise.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object.
-   _feature_ `string`: Feature to test.
-   _defaultSupports_ `boolean`: Whether feature is supported by default if not explicitly defined.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: Whether block supports feature.

<a name="hasChildBlocks" href="#hasChildBlocks">#</a> **hasChildBlocks**

Returns a boolean indicating if a block has child blocks or not.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if a block contains child blocks and false otherwise.

<a name="hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport" href="#hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport">#</a> **hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport**

Returns a boolean indicating if a block has at least one child block with inserter support.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if a block contains at least one child blocks with inserter support and false otherwise.

<a name="isMatchingSearchTerm" href="#isMatchingSearchTerm">#</a> **isMatchingSearchTerm**

Returns true if the block type by the given name or object value matches a
search term, or false otherwise.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Blocks state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object.
-   _searchTerm_ `string`: Search term by which to filter.

_Returns_

-   `Array<Object>`: Wheter block type matches search term.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors) -->

## Actions

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated actions) -->

<a name="addBlockStyles" href="#addBlockStyles">#</a> **addBlockStyles**

Returns an action object used in signalling that new block styles have been added.

_Parameters_

-   _blockName_ `string`: Block name.
-   _styles_ `(Array|Object)`: Block styles.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="addBlockTypes" href="#addBlockTypes">#</a> **addBlockTypes**

Returns an action object used in signalling that block types have been added.

_Parameters_

-   _blockTypes_ `(Array|Object)`: Block types received.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="removeBlockStyles" href="#removeBlockStyles">#</a> **removeBlockStyles**

Returns an action object used in signalling that block styles have been removed.

_Parameters_

-   _blockName_ `string`: Block name.
-   _styleNames_ `(Array|string)`: Block style names.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="removeBlockTypes" href="#removeBlockTypes">#</a> **removeBlockTypes**

Returns an action object used to remove a registered block type.

_Parameters_

-   _names_ `(string|Array)`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setCategories" href="#setCategories">#</a> **setCategories**

Returns an action object used to set block categories.

_Parameters_

-   _categories_ `Array<Object>`: Block categories.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setDefaultBlockName" href="#setDefaultBlockName">#</a> **setDefaultBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the default block name.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setFreeformFallbackBlockName" href="#setFreeformFallbackBlockName">#</a> **setFreeformFallbackBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the name of the block used as a fallback
for non-block content.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName" href="#setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName">#</a> **setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the name of the block used as a fallback
for unregistered blocks.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="updateCategory" href="#updateCategory">#</a> **updateCategory**

Returns an action object used to update a category.

_Parameters_

-   _slug_ `string`: Block category slug.
-   _category_ `Object`: Object containing the category properties that should be updated.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated actions) -->

Commit message:

Adds grouping interaction to state
Enables the ability register a given block as the block which handles “grouping” interactions within the editor.

Related https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/14908

docs/designers-developers/developers/data/data-core-blocks.md, after:

# Block Types Data

Namespace: `core/blocks`.

## Selectors

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors) -->

<a name="getBlockStyles" href="#getBlockStyles">#</a> **getBlockStyles**

Returns block styles by block name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _name_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `?Array`: Block Styles.

<a name="getBlockSupport" href="#getBlockSupport">#</a> **getBlockSupport**

Returns the block support value for a feature, if defined.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object
-   _feature_ `string`: Feature to retrieve
-   _defaultSupports_ `*`: Default value to return if not explicitly defined

_Returns_

-   `?*`: Block support value

<a name="getBlockType" href="#getBlockType">#</a> **getBlockType**

Returns a block type by name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _name_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `?Object`: Block Type.

<a name="getBlockTypes" href="#getBlockTypes">#</a> **getBlockTypes**

Returns all the available block types.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Block Types.

<a name="getCategories" href="#getCategories">#</a> **getCategories**

Returns all the available categories.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Categories list.

<a name="getChildBlockNames" href="#getChildBlockNames">#</a> **getChildBlockNames**

Returns an array with the child blocks of a given block.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `Array`: Array of child block names.

<a name="getDefaultBlockName" href="#getDefaultBlockName">#</a> **getDefaultBlockName**

Returns the name of the default block name.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Default block name.

<a name="getFreeformFallbackBlockName" href="#getFreeformFallbackBlockName">#</a> **getFreeformFallbackBlockName**

Returns the name of the block for handling non-block content.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Name of the block for handling non-block content.

<a name="getGroupingBlockName" href="#getGroupingBlockName">#</a> **getGroupingBlockName**

Returns the name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

<a name="getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName" href="#getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName">#</a> **getUnregisteredFallbackBlockName**

Returns the name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.

_Returns_

-   `?string`: Name of the block for handling unregistered blocks.

<a name="hasBlockSupport" href="#hasBlockSupport">#</a> **hasBlockSupport**

Returns true if the block defines support for a feature, or false otherwise.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object.
-   _feature_ `string`: Feature to test.
-   _defaultSupports_ `boolean`: Whether feature is supported by default if not explicitly defined.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: Whether block supports feature.

<a name="hasChildBlocks" href="#hasChildBlocks">#</a> **hasChildBlocks**

Returns a boolean indicating if a block has child blocks or not.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if a block contains child blocks and false otherwise.

<a name="hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport" href="#hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport">#</a> **hasChildBlocksWithInserterSupport**

Returns a boolean indicating if a block has at least one child block with inserter support.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Data state.
-   _blockName_ `string`: Block type name.

_Returns_

-   `boolean`: True if a block contains at least one child blocks with inserter support and false otherwise.

<a name="isMatchingSearchTerm" href="#isMatchingSearchTerm">#</a> **isMatchingSearchTerm**

Returns true if the block type by the given name or object value matches a
search term, or false otherwise.

_Parameters_

-   _state_ `Object`: Blocks state.
-   _nameOrType_ `(string|Object)`: Block name or type object.
-   _searchTerm_ `string`: Search term by which to filter.

_Returns_

-   `Array<Object>`: Wheter block type matches search term.


<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated selectors) -->

## Actions

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated actions) -->

<a name="addBlockStyles" href="#addBlockStyles">#</a> **addBlockStyles**

Returns an action object used in signalling that new block styles have been added.

_Parameters_

-   _blockName_ `string`: Block name.
-   _styles_ `(Array|Object)`: Block styles.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="addBlockTypes" href="#addBlockTypes">#</a> **addBlockTypes**

Returns an action object used in signalling that block types have been added.

_Parameters_

-   _blockTypes_ `(Array|Object)`: Block types received.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="removeBlockStyles" href="#removeBlockStyles">#</a> **removeBlockStyles**

Returns an action object used in signalling that block styles have been removed.

_Parameters_

-   _blockName_ `string`: Block name.
-   _styleNames_ `(Array|string)`: Block style names.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="removeBlockTypes" href="#removeBlockTypes">#</a> **removeBlockTypes**

Returns an action object used to remove a registered block type.

_Parameters_

-   _names_ `(string|Array)`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setCategories" href="#setCategories">#</a> **setCategories**

Returns an action object used to set block categories.

_Parameters_

-   _categories_ `Array<Object>`: Block categories.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setDefaultBlockName" href="#setDefaultBlockName">#</a> **setDefaultBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the default block name.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setFreeformFallbackBlockName" href="#setFreeformFallbackBlockName">#</a> **setFreeformFallbackBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the name of the block used as a fallback
for non-block content.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setGroupingBlockName" href="#setGroupingBlockName">#</a> **setGroupingBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the name of the block used
when grouping other blocks
eg: in "Group/Ungroup" interactions

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName" href="#setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName">#</a> **setUnregisteredFallbackBlockName**

Returns an action object used to set the name of the block used as a fallback
for unregistered blocks.

_Parameters_

-   _name_ `string`: Block name.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<a name="updateCategory" href="#updateCategory">#</a> **updateCategory**

Returns an action object used to update a category.

_Parameters_

-   _slug_ `string`: Block category slug.
-   _category_ `Object`: Object containing the category properties that should be updated.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: Action object.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated actions) -->
