packages/components/src/card/card-footer/README.md, before:

# CardFooter

CardFooter renders an optional footer within a [`<Card />`](../card/README.md).

## Usage

```jsx
import { Card, CardFooter } from '@wordpress/components';

const Example = () => (
	<Card>
		<CardFooter>...</CardFooter>
	</Card>
);
```

### Flex

Underneath, CardFooter uses the layout component [`<Flex/>`](../../flex/flex/README.md). This improves the alignment of child items within the component.

```jsx
import {
	Button,
	Card,
	CardFooter,
	FlexItem,
	FlexBlock,
} from '@wordpress/components';

const Example = () => (
	<Card>
		<CardFooter>
			<FlexBlock>Content</FlexBlock>
			<FlexItem>
				<Button>Action</Button>
			</FlexItem>
		</CardFooter>
	</Card>
);
```

Check out [the documentation](../../flex/flex/README.md) on `<Flex/>` for more details on layout composition.

## Props

### isBorderless

Determines the border style of the card.

-   Type: `Boolean`
-   Required: No
-   Default: `false`

### isElevated

Determines the elevation style of the card.

-   Type: `Boolean`
-   Required: No
-   Default: `false`

### isShady

Renders with a light gray background color.

-   Type: `Boolean`
-   Required: No
-   Default: `false`

### size

Determines the amount of padding within the component.

-   Type: `String`
-   Required: No
-   Default: `medium`

Note: This component is connected to [`<Card />`'s Context](../card/README.md#context). Passing props directly to this component will override the props derived from context.

Commit message:

Card: update to g2 implementation (#32566)
* `<CardDivider />`: replace with new implementation

* `<CardMedia />`: replace with new implementation

* `<CardHeader />`: replace with new implementation

* `<CardFooter />`: replace with new implementation

* `<CardBody />`: replace with new implementation

* `<Card />`: replace with new implementation

* Add `none` as a value for the `size` props

* Tweak card new padding configuration (spacing) to be same as previous one

* Update tests: use snapshots instead of query the DOM by classname

* Change default value of `elevation` prop to `0` to mach old card s default state

* Update CHANGELOG

* CardMedia: remove MediaProps type in favour on inline declaration

* Update Markdown paths from relative to absolute

* Add inline comment to mark the legacy classnames

* CardDivider: remove unnecessary children null override

* Card: no need to return deprecated `isElevated` prop

* Fix typo: contex => context

* Update Card context explainer in Markdown files

* Fix typo: `componnents` => `components`

Co-authored-by: Marin Atanasov <8436925+tyxla@users.noreply.github.com>

* Card `SizeOptions`: Rename `none` value to `minimal`

* Revert adding a new value of `none` (or `minimal`) to the allowed values for the `size` prop

* Auto-format JSDocs

* `Card`: do not return `elevation` if its value is `undefined` when computing deprecatedProps

* Update snapshots

Co-authored-by: Marin Atanasov <8436925+tyxla@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/components/src/card/card-footer/README.md, after:

# CardFooter

`CardFooter` renders an optional footer within a [`Card`](/packages/components/src/card/card/README.md).

## Usage

```jsx
import { Card, CardFooter } from '@wordpress/components';

const Example = () => (
	<Card>
 		<CardBody>...</CardBody>
 		<CardFooter>...</CardFooter>
	</Card>
);
```

### Flex

Underneath, `CardFooter` uses the [`Flex` layout component](/packages/components/src/flex/flex/README.md). This improves the alignment of child items within the component.

```jsx
import {
	Button,
	Card,
	CardFooter,
	FlexItem,
	FlexBlock,
} from '@wordpress/components';

const Example = () => (
	<Card>
		<CardBody>...</CardBody>
		<CardFooter>
			<FlexBlock>Content</FlexBlock>
			<FlexItem>
				<Button>Action</Button>
			</FlexItem>
		</CardFooter>
	</Card>
);
```

Check out [the documentation](/packages/components/src/flex/flex/README.md) on `Flex` for more details on layout composition.

## Props

Note: This component is connected to [`Card`'s Context](/packages/components/src/card/card/README.md#context). The value of the `size` and `isBorderless` props is derived from the `Card` parent component (if there is one). Setting these props directly on this component will override any derived values.

### `isBorderless`: `boolean`

Renders without a border.

- Required: No
- Default: `false`

### `isShady`: `boolean`

Renders with a light gray background color.

-   Required: No
-   Default: `false`

### `justify`: `CSSProperties[ 'justifyContent' ]`

See the documentation for the `justify` prop for the [`Flex` component](/packages/components/src/flex/flex/README.md#justify)

### `size`: `string`

Determines the amount of padding within the component.

- Required: No
- Default: `medium`
- Allowed values: `xSmall`, `small`, `medium`, `large`
