packages/eslint-plugin/README.md, before:

# ESLint Plugin

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) plugin including configurations and custom rules for WordPress development.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/eslint-plugin --save-dev
```

## Usage

To opt-in to the default configuration, extend your own project's `.eslintrc` file:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/recommended" ]
}
```

Refer to the [ESLint documentation on Shareable Configs](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/shareable-configs) for more information.

The `recommended` preset will include rules governing an ES2015+ environment, and includes rules from the [`eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y`](https://github.com/evcohen/eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y) and [`eslint-plugin-react`](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react) projects.

### Rulesets

Alternatively, you can opt-in to only the more granular rulesets offered by the plugin. These include:

- `es5`
- `esnext`
- `jsx-a11y`
- `react`

For example, if your project does not use React, you could consider extending including only the ESNext rules in your project using the following `extends` definition:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/esnext" ]
}
```

These rules can be used additively, so you could extend both `esnext` and `custom` rulesets, but omit the `react` and `jsx-a11y` configurations.

The granular rulesets will not define any environment globals. As such, if they are required for your project, you will need to define them yourself.

### Rules

Rule|Description|Recommended
---|---|---
[dependency-group](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/dependency-group.md)|Enforce dependencies docblocks formatting|✓
[gutenberg-phase](docs/rules/gutenberg-phase.md)|Governs the use of the `process.env.GUTENBERG_PHASE` constant|✓
[no-unused-vars-before-return](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-unused-vars-before-return.md)|Disallow assigning variable values if unused before a return|✓
[react-no-unsafe-timeout](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/react-no-unsafe-timeout.md)|Disallow unsafe `setTimeout` in component|
[valid-sprintf](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/valid-sprintf.md)|Enforce valid sprintf usage|✓

### Legacy

If you are using WordPress' `.jshintrc` JSHint configuration and you would like to take the first step to migrate to an ESLint equivalent it is also possible to define your own project's `.eslintrc` file as:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/jshint" ]
}
```

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>

Commit message:

Add: ESLint rule to avoid BaseControl component with label without an id. (#14151)

packages/eslint-plugin/README.md, after:

# ESLint Plugin

[ESLint](https://eslint.org/) plugin including configurations and custom rules for WordPress development.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/eslint-plugin --save-dev
```

## Usage

To opt-in to the default configuration, extend your own project's `.eslintrc` file:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/recommended" ]
}
```

Refer to the [ESLint documentation on Shareable Configs](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/shareable-configs) for more information.

The `recommended` preset will include rules governing an ES2015+ environment, and includes rules from the [`eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y`](https://github.com/evcohen/eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y) and [`eslint-plugin-react`](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react) projects.

### Rulesets

Alternatively, you can opt-in to only the more granular rulesets offered by the plugin. These include:

- `es5`
- `esnext`
- `jsx-a11y`
- `react`

For example, if your project does not use React, you could consider extending including only the ESNext rules in your project using the following `extends` definition:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/esnext" ]
}
```

These rules can be used additively, so you could extend both `esnext` and `custom` rulesets, but omit the `react` and `jsx-a11y` configurations.

The granular rulesets will not define any environment globals. As such, if they are required for your project, you will need to define them yourself.

### Rules

Rule|Description|Recommended
---|---|---
[dependency-group](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/dependency-group.md)|Enforce dependencies docblocks formatting|✓
[gutenberg-phase](docs/rules/gutenberg-phase.md)|Governs the use of the `process.env.GUTENBERG_PHASE` constant|✓
[no-unused-vars-before-return](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-unused-vars-before-return.md)|Disallow assigning variable values if unused before a return|✓
[react-no-unsafe-timeout](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/react-no-unsafe-timeout.md)|Disallow unsafe `setTimeout` in component|
[valid-sprintf](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/valid-sprintf.md)|Enforce valid sprintf usage|✓
[no-base-control-with-label-without-id](/packages/eslint-plugin/docs/rules/no-base-control-with-label-without-id.md)| Disallow the usage of BaseControl component with a label prop set but omitting the id property|✓

### Legacy

If you are using WordPress' `.jshintrc` JSHint configuration and you would like to take the first step to migrate to an ESLint equivalent it is also possible to define your own project's `.eslintrc` file as:

```json
{
	"extends": [ "plugin:@wordpress/eslint-plugin/jshint" ]
}
```

<br/><br/><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>
