docs/readme.md, before:

# Gutenberg Handbook

The Gutenberg project provides three sources of documentation:

## Designer & Developer Handbook

Learn how to build blocks and extend the editor, best practices for designing block interfaces, and how to create themes that make the most of the new features Gutenberg provides.

Start with [the Designer & Developer Handbook](/docs/designers-developers/readme.md) to learn the background and concepts, or jump straight to [Gutenberg Tutorials](/docs/designers-developers/developers/tutorials/readme.md) for detailed examples.

## User Handbook

Discover the new features WordPress offers, learn how your site will be affected by the new editor and how to keep using the old interface, and tips for creating beautiful posts and pages.

See [the WordPress Editor](https://wordpress.org/support/article/wordpress-editor/) support documentation.


## Contributor Handbook

Help make Gutenberg better by contributing ideas, code, testing, and more.

[Visit the Contributor Handbook](/docs/contributors/readme.md)

Commit message:

Add a DevHub manifest (#15254)
* Add a devhub manifest

* Move reference docs to bottom

* Extract tutorials to the top-level

* Rename Designers & Developers Handbook to Block Editor Handbook

* Rename Contributors Guide to Contributor Documentation

* Rename Components to Component Reference

* Rename Packages to Package Reference

* Substitute old top-level README

The front-page of the handbook is the one whose slug is handbook.
This is generated by looking at the path (docs/readme.md),
so we substitute the old README with the new one.

* Add a reference to contributors as well

* Delete unused file that wasnt removed on rebase

* Use manifest-devhub instead of old manifest

* Fix toc.json from rebase

* Updame manifest-devhub.json

* Use relative paths to docs

docs/readme.md, after:

# Block Editor Handbook

The Gutenberg project is transforming the way content is created on WordPress. A block editor was the first product launched creating a new methodology for working with content. This handbook provides documentation for how designers and developers can extend the editor, and also how you can start contributing to the project.

![Gutenberg Demo](https://cldup.com/kZXGDcGPMU.gif)

Using a system of Blocks to compose and format content, the new block-based editor is designed to create rich, flexible layouts for websites and digital products. Content is created in the unit of blocks instead of freeform text with inserted media, embeds and Shortcodes (there's a Shortcode block though).

Blocks treat Paragraphs, Headings, Media, Embeds all as components that strung together make up the content stored in the WordPress database, replacing the traditional concept of freeform text with embedded media and shortcodes. The new editor is designed with progressive enhancement, meaning it is back-compatible with all legacy content, offers a process to try to convert and split a Classic block into block equivalents using client-side parsing and finally the blocks offer enhanced editing and format controls.

The Editor offers rich new value to users with visual, drag-and-drop creation tools and powerful developer enhancements with modern vendor packages, reusable components, rich APIs and hooks to modify and extend the editor through Custom Blocks, Custom Block Styles and Plugins.
